# Requirement
	python 3.11.0
	openai 0.28.0
	torch  1.13.0
	numpy  1.26.3
	pandas 2.1.4
	requests  2.31.0 
	requests-oauthlib  1.3.1
	
# Directory
**apis/**: contain all python codes to access online domain databases through web APIs.

**Datasets/**:
1. Gene Ontology/:
GO_terms.csv:   1000 gene set and their GO terms sampled from the Gene Ontology database.
GO_toy.csv:     a small subset of all gene sets to test the GeneAgent.
  
2. MsigDB/:
MsigDB.csv:     56 gene sets and their reference terms sampled from the MSigDB database.
MsigDB_toy.csv: a small subset of all gene sets to test the GeneAgent.
  
3. NeST/:
NeST_table.tsv: 50 proteomics set sampled from the human cancer protein system (NeST).
NeST_toy.tsv:   a small subset of all proteomics set to test the GeneAgent.
				
**GSEATerms/**: the siginificant enrichement terms of all 56 gene sets in MsigDB returned by g:Profiler, containing all siginificant terms, and top-1, 3, 5 enrichment terms.

**Outputs/**:
	1. Chain-of-Thought/: contain the results of three datasets based on the GPT-4 with chain-of-thought setting.
 
	2. EnrichedTermTest/: contain the results of four different settings in summarizing multiple enrichment terms for a gene set.
 
	3. GeneAgent/: 
		Cascade: contain the results of three datasets based on the GeneAgent with cascase structure.
  
	4. GPT-4/: contain the results of three datasets based on the vanilla GPT-4 proposed by Hu et al.
 
**Verification Reports**: 
	Cascade/: contain the claims and verification reports of three datasets based on the GeneAgent with cascase structure.
 
**BP_terms_All.csv**: contain 12214 GO:BP terms used in the evaluation of background semantica similarity distribution.

**evaluate.ipynb**: the juputer file conatining all evalutaion codes.

**gene_narrative_synposis_spindoctor.txt**: contain narrative synposis of 56 gene sets in MsigDB, which is used in the enrichment terms test.

**gene_ontological_synposis_spindoctor.txt**: contain ontological synposis of 56 gene sets in MsigDB, which is also used in the enrichment terms test.

**main_cascade.py**: the main function to obtain the results of GeneAgent.

**main_CoT.py**: the main function to obtain the results of GPT-4 with the chain-of-thought, CoT, prompt.

**main_summary.py**: the main function to summarize multiple enrichment terms for a given gene set.

**worker.py**: a python scirpt to call web APIs to verify the claims generated by GeneAgent.
	
# Run GeneAgent (or the variants) step by step:
## Installation
1. Apply an OpenAI Key from the Azure OpenAI service to activate the access of LLMs, e.g., GPT-4
 2. Create a virtual environment on your GPU terminate by using the anaconda command, e.g., ```conda create -n {envname} python=3.11```
  3. Activate the environment by using the command ```conda activate {envname}```
   4. Install the required packages one by one with the command ```python install {package} == {version}```
    5. Create a directory for the downloaded GeneAgent respoisit.
     
## Replace the openai key
1. Go to the created directory of GeneAgent by using ```cd {directory}```
 2. Open the **main_cascade.py** and the **worker.py** respectively to replace the ```openai.api_key = "***************************"```with your own API Key as well as other required parameters.
  >[!TIP]
   >If you need to run the variants of GeneAgent, such as chain-of-thought **main_CoT.py** and the summarization for multiple biological terms **main_summary.py**, please also make a key replacement accordingly.

## Run the code
Type ```python main_cascade.py``` in the terminate. The results will be stored accordingly.
 >[!TIP]
  >If you want to evaluate your own gene sets, save them to **Dataset** directory and change the directory path in the ``main_cascade.py```
>Also, the output path can be changed according to your preference.

## Evaluate the outputs
Open ```evaluate.ipynb``` to run the corresponding cells based on your requirements.


# Demonstration website
A demonstration website is at https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/CBBresearch/Lu/Demo/GeneAgent/ with an open-access permissions.
